The Joe Rogan experience. But, but I think what's interesting is like,
that kind of stuff is so much less
satisfying that to bring it back to like what you do than like something that
you have to really work for. And it's really difficult.
And it's a very visceral,
real feel like the feeling of accomplishment you get when you do something
virtual will never be able to compare right. With the,
the feeling that you do when you do a, a physical visceral thing. Right.
When it, you feel it in your bones.
Yeah. You feel it, you live it. Yeah. I, I, uh,
when I was doing world strongest, man, in botswan Africa,
I tore my bicep and, um, I, I just was getting beat up over and over again.
I was just so wrecked. My body wasn't accepting. Cause I,
I went from football to strong men and in football, we'd never done deadlifts.
It was all hand cleans and power cleans, which by the way,
just quick little tip deadlifts. If you're, if you're deadlift to be a better,
deadlifter fine. If you're not doing that for deadlifts sake, then don't do it.
The risk to reward ratio is a joke for deadlifts, for deadlifts, really.
And a lot of people aren't gonna like that. I'm saying that,
but if you go into any NFL, uh, gym in any division,
one college football gym in any athletics where people are actually getting paid
and it matters what they're doing, they're not,
deadlifting really they're hand cleaning and power cleaning. Why is that?
Because the, the risk to reward ratio, like we there's,
it's so hard to be a great deadlifter and to not risk your low back and oh,
to, to be using your upper back properly. And you know, just,
there's so many little, uh, um, chances for you to get hurt. You know,
hamsting's deadlift. That was, that was me. Uh, my first world strongest, man,
uh, I was the only rookie in the finals, bro. She.
How much.
Weight is that? That was 880 pounds, 400 kids.
Me and my pink chucks. And you're, I weigh less than that.
Now I'm less of a bowling ball though. Really? Yeah. Yeah.
Wow. That, well, they made those weights ridiculous looking too.
Right? Well, none that right there is, uh, something we overhead pressed too.
So they'll take some of the weights out of it and it's so flimsy when you clean
it,
it's like basically like holding that earthquake bar that you have out there.
Oh really? It's just like that. And it's, it's brutal.
So they take weight out of that round thing. Yeah.
Like what is in that round thing? There's.
Well, there's several different attachments to it.
So maybe some of them way different. I've never like been a part of that,
but uh, like even to that,
or it unscrews at the end and they take weights out of it and I'm not.
Positive. Exactly. What, so you leave the NFL or you leave playing football.
Yeah. And you, were you in the.
NFL? No, I had a brief shot at it. Never, never actually got to do it. No,
it was.
So what, what kind of transition,
like what is the transition to getting the strong.
Man went from that to, uh, I was a security guard at, in Santa Cruz.
There's this place called the catalyst,
which is where I worked for like six years.
It's a really cool bar slash concert venue. So I was like, spoiled.
I got to hang out with Rob zombie and Willie Wilson and. Yeah. It was cool, man.
Wow. I was spoiled. Rob zombie. I geeked out really hard for that's dope. It.
Was fun. Yeah. We're working on.
Getting him here, dude. He'd be awesome. He'd be awesome. Sure. Yeah, sure.
He would be yeah. Yeah. He was really cool.
I'm I'm sure he is like, he's really in horror movies.
Man, dude. And he does the best ones. Yeah. I love his horror movies, man.
They're wild. I'm a huge fan. Huge fan.
He's like the quinin Tarantino of horror. Yeah. It's awesome.
But it's such a weird transit, you know? Yeah.
Guy going from being a rockstar to a horror film director, he's.
Just crazy in the head and his brother is actually the lead singer of Powerman
5,000. Really? Yeah. Oh wow.
So in the.
Family,
so did I went to security and I was working there and a buddy of mine who I'd
played junior college ball with was just obsessed with strong men.
And I I'd never heard of it. I never wore watched it.
Like when I was growing up, we were poor.
Like there was 10 of us in a three bedroom house and from high school on like,
we didn't have electricity. So like, like we didn't watch TV. We,
we would play outside. We had a trampoline.
You didn't have electricity.
In high school. On the weekends.
My dad worked for caterpillar Cashman equipment.
So on the weekends he'd bring home a little generator and he'd plug that in and
we'd have like three things we could use, but that was it. Wow.
Like the hot water heater would work for the weekend.
And then like maybe the TV on Saturday night or something like T G I F or
something. But I mean, it wasn't, I mean, as a kid, it's not that big of a deal,
you know? Like you just go play with your brothers outside. Right. So,
but like I never knew what strong man was because of that. I mean,
I had no idea, so he was obsessed with it and he kept trying to get me to do it.
And then, uh, went, went home and Googled it, checked it out. Actually,
I don't know if it was Google. I'm not a YouTube dude back then, who was,
who knows what we had. But um, you know, I,
I was excited and went and tried it out.
And first day the amateur world record at log
press was like 320 pounds at the time. And I, I had no idea,
but the first day I hit 330 pounds and just put it down.
And I looked over my buddy and I was like, you know, how'd that look?
And he's like, get the outta here. <laugh> and like,
he's been trying his whole life to do this. <laugh> just came in and took it.
And then, uh, eight months later, I mean,
six months that I was competing in England and I had my pro card two months
after that, I was in China at that photo right there, world strongest, man.
I was the only rookie in the finals.
So is it the log thing? Is it the,
the awkwardness of like holding onto a log and getting it under your hands.
And yeah. And it's, it's actually,
it's a lot healthier for your shoulders instead of being, uh,
how would you call that with your hands right there? The proneated.
Or sonated yeah. Yeah. I dunno if, forget which one is which we, the worst,
I like it when trainers use that though, like, oh, you.
Know what? You're talking about this guy's got his together,
this fat dude eating French fries. <laugh> so, um, yeah. I mean, um,
so it's better for you to do it.
It's much better for your wrist and your shoulders makes sense. And,
and also like that's what my Eric.
Coast, Jamie show us proated grip, grip. Sonated grip.
Yeah. Neutral grip is much better for your wrists than shoulders. Mm.
Okay. Like, so handles like this. They say that with bench press as well. Yeah.
Like those, uh, benches, they have new bars that have handle.
The bars from rogue. Yeah. Yeah. Those.
Are dope. Awesome. Awesome. Rogue makes good equipment. Yeah. I use all their,
my house. And here,
I know I was looking and then they don't pay me and it's not free.
I buy all of it. Same.
Here. I don't work with 'em either, but they're the best. Yeah. It's the best.
So, um, I, we went to worlds and then, oh yeah, I was,
I totally lost the whole getting. And.
So you won, first of all, you beat the world record log, press the.
World record amateur amateur record ever. Yeah. <laugh>.
Your first attempt.
That's hilarious. Yeah. So it was good. My,
and then what's the pro record right now. The,
the American record's been mine for four years and that was 211 kilos.
And that's what is that four 60 something like that?
Is this you here? This is me. Yeah. This is in Australia. In front of Arnold.
Jesus Christ.
That's.
Arnold was there. Yeah.
That's his show.
That's his competition. This is my competition.
This is, so this is a log press.
Right here. Yep. That's a skinny log too. This was a hard log to use. But, uh,
this was a buddy of mine had that record and he passed away and I wanted to be
the one to take it from him after he had dead. And that, that was this moment.
Jesus Christ.
That looks heavy. You show me, show off a little bit too.
I like to do this after I get it up.
Wow. So that's the world record?
Myamerican record. Who's the world record the world record.
I like to hold it up there and talk. <laugh> every time you see a record broken,
the guy gets it to here and then he just throws it down. Right? I don't count.
It doesn't count. So the world record is, uh,
219 kilos. I believe something like that. Something,
something right around there. It might have been 2, 2 20.
How close are are you to that? I can, I can break right now. Yeah. Yeah. Oh,
in January break that. Robert, I'm going to London.
<laugh> I'm gonna give London a little introduction to Texas. Uh, uh,
what do you call Texas pride and Texas powerlifton for sure. Wow. I'm excited.
So you go and you break the American amateur record right away. Right? First,
first attempt out. And is that when you've felt like, I could do this. Yeah.
I went home and uh, I told my, my, my fiance at the time we,
we were living in a studio and we were just broke and I was volunteer coaching.
And I was, uh, for high school, which is my passion in high school football.
And then I was working at that club at night. So I didn't have a lot of time,
but I was like, I can make this. And like, with,
with my personality and this is a platform I can do this.
And everybody kept telling me there's no money in strong man. There isn't any,
and there really wasn't. There wasn't like,
there was no money in strong man until I made money in strong man,
like really brought it into, there was several other people. But like,
what we did was we cultivated a whole new era of strong man.
Whereas before like, even like pugenowski was a guy who got a lot of attention,
cuz he looked just shreded yeah. You know, jacked. But I mean, if you,
if you he's got like a cribs episode that they did in Poland and he's got this
tiny little house with like little knickknacks and stuff, he's so proud of.
It's really weird. It's crazy. But like, like even then he's five time world,
strongest man winner. There there's really no money in that. I would've.
Thought he would've been balling outta control. You would think so.
Cause I know who he is.
I feel like if I know who you are and you do something on TV, you must be rich.
Yeah, exactly.
That's that's the Rapper's uh, display <laugh> yeah, exactly.
I'm flying in first class and then you catch little bawow in the.
Back. Well,
I remember one of the weird things that I read about pugennowski is how much
candy he eats. Huh? Yeah. And that he really likes, uh,
candy in between workouts because he's blowing out so much sugar that he would
eat chocolate bars.
That makes sense. Yeah.
We do a lot of like I do peanut butter and honey stuff like that during
competition, peanut butter and honey, or schsnicers really? Yeah.
When you eat peanut and butter and honey, you eat it with a spoon,
like what do you, how.
Do you, I usually make the sandwiches.
I see guys just pouring honey in their mouth. Like the Russian guys.
There's a Russian guy who was a Russian secret service for a while. And this no.
Yeah. Like you look in his eyes, you're like this has done some bad things.
<laugh> and, but he's the nicest dude in the world.
He's he's like the sweetest guy.
He comes like he always comes over and talks to me and my family and he is,
he doesn't speak good English,
but he's really nice about trying to get his point across and everything. And,
but um, yeah, that, that guy's done probably scary. Yeah. Yeah.
I'm sure there's a lot of that.
Cuz we compete with people from all around the world, you know, and you know,
we, uh, we tend to of forget that everywhere else.
There's a lot of it's it's normal almost to be like that in some places right.
To survive. Right. And if you're a giant dude,
it's probably the best way to make a living. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah.
And so they just squirt honey in their mouth. Yeah.
They'll just pour like,
like a whole little canister of honey and just take that.
You see guys do that right before they go lift and stuff. I'm I, uh, the,
the way I grew up and the, the, the way I did things,
like I was always taught and it kind of worked with being broke,
but like a warrior goes to war hungry. Mm that's. Like in football,
I would never eat before a game ever. And then, um, got into strong man.
And I did that for a long time and I got up to 440 pounds and I
would, I would do an entire show like five, six hours without eating.
But then during it, I would snack a little bit, but I would never eat a meal.
Right. But.
Then to eat the resources, it eats up your resources.
Right. Right. And, and, and see,
for me it felt like anything in my stomach just made me feel like slow.
Mm. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. Yeah, too. That's the same with comedy too.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I learned that from KA Williams,
watching an interview with them to don't eat before you go on stage. I'm like,
that makes sense. Yeah. You better off being hungry. Right. Hunter,
hunter hunters do that too. The best hunters they hunt hungry. Yeah.
See. And then, but what happened to me was I lost 80 pounds. That was four 40.
I lost 80 pounds.
And when I got hurt in Botana I lost all that weight.
And just because of the bicep tear, no, I, I chose to do that. See,
I'm when I graduated high school, I was 370 pounds.
So I've always been a big dude,
but I got up to four 40 and just walking around was laborist you know, just,
I felt like horrible being, how big were you when you did that log? Press,
that log press. That was like, like 4 25 ish,
four 30 around that. So like I gained a little bit more after that. I just,
everyone tells you in the sport, the bigger you are, the stronger you are.
And that kind of holds true to static lifting,
like end of it's not necessary all the time, but it kind of holds true,
but we gotta move, man. Mm-hmm <affirmative> like,
we're talking about pulling a truck and doing load events and all that stuff.
When, when you're four 40 and your body's not agreeing with that four 40,
it just, it holds you back. You wanna imagine the load on your joints too? Yeah.
It's particularly lower back. Yeah. My low back was bad. Yeah.
So that's what happened. I I'd got hurt and I felt like I was done.
Cause my low back,
I I'd have to take me like 45 minutes to get outta bed in the morning. Really?
Oh yeah. I was messed up man. Really bad. And then did you get an MRI?
I never got an MRI and didn't, I'm scared to suck it up. Exactly.
Just roll. How'd you fix it? Uh, I, when I lost weight,
I got the better and it's core strength for me now. Oh,
core strength and stretching. And also I smoke weed. Like a lot of,
a lot of athletes are against it.
And a lot of people think that there's some like negative connotation with being
like someone who smokes weed. But I mean, I'm watching guys take,
vicanin like its Skittles. I'm watching guys.
I've seen guys throw away their lives, their families,
their career over a bunch of pills because they didn't want to smoke. And it's,
it's crazy. It, you know, it is crazy.